expenses of the Merchant in the sole discretion of and without any liability to the Carrier on account of risk toCarrier under arrangements previously made in writing, they may nevertheless be destroyed at the risk andSpecial Administrative Region and no other court.Merchant in the sole discretion of and without any liability to the Carrier. If such goods are handled by theAdministrative Region. Any claim or dispute must be determined exclusively by the courts in the Hong Kongwith such goods, and such goods may be destroyed or otherwise dealt with at the risk and expenses of the22. The contract evidenced by this Sea Waybill is governed by the laws of the Hong Kong Specialagainst all penalties, claims, damages, costs, expenses and any other liability whatsoever arising in connectionaction against the Carrier whether such action is founded in contract or in tort.caused by or to or in connection with such goods and howsoever arising, and shall indemnify the Carrier21. The defences, exemptions and limitations of liability provided for in this Sea Waybill shall apply in anyaware of the nature of such goods, the Merchant shall be liable for all expenses, losses or damage whatsoeverdelivered or the date of the event giving rise to the claim, whichever is the earliest.goods otherwise than under special arrangements previously made in writing, then whether or not the Carrier isRegion within nine months from the date of delivery of the goods or the date the goods should have beenShould the Merchant nevertheless deliver any such goods to the Carrier or cause the Carrier to handle any suchthe Services, unless suit is brought against the Carrier in the court of the Hong Kong Special AdministrativeDangerous Goods, nor are goods of comparable hazard, nor are goods otherwise likely to cause damage.20. The Carrier shall in any event be discharged of all liability whatsoever and howsoever arising in respect of6. Except under special arrangements previously made in writing, the Merchant warrants that the goods are notCarrier shall in any event be discharged of all liability whatsoever and howsoever arising in respect of the claim.Carrier before delivery.the aforesaid written claim notice to the Carrier and thereby prejudices the Carrier’s position in the claim, thecharges thereon shall, if required, be made by the goods, Shipper, Consignee or owners of the goods to theknows about the event that may give rise to the claim, whichever is the earliest. If the Merchant fails to deliverits agent, may deem sufficient to cover the estimated contribution of the goods and any salvage and specialdate of delivery of the goods or the date the goods should have been delivered or the date the Merchant firstbe paid for as fully as if the said salving vessel or vessels belonged to strangers. Such deposit as the Carrier, or19. Any claim notice against the Carrier must be in writing and delivered to the Carrier within 14 days from thecharges incurred in respect of the goods. If a salving vessel is owned or operated by the Carrier, salvages shallbut not limited to storage costs and demurrage charges) incurred until the goods are disposed of or sold.losses or expenses of a General Average nature that may be made or incurred and shall pay salvage and specialMerchant is responsible for payment of all the outstanding freight charges, and costs and expenses (includingowners of the goods shall contribute with the Carrier in General Average to the payment of any sacrifices,dispose of the goods, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the goods. Thewhich, the Carrier is not responsible, by Statute, contract or otherwise, the goods, Shipper, Consignee orthe Merchant. In case the Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant toresulting from any cause whatsoever, whether due to negligence or not, for which or for the consequence ofentitled (but not obliged) to sell by public auction or private treaty or to dispose of the goods at the expense of5.6. In the event of accident, danger, damage or disaster before or after the commencement of the voyage,dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e-mail address or fax number last known to the Carrier, the Carrier iswhatsoever made against the non-carrying vessel by the Merchant.the goods shall cease. If the Merchant does not dispose of the goods within 14 days after notice has beenharmless the Carrier against any liability to any other party in so far as such liability relates to any claimplace for the Merchant to dispose of the goods, whereupon the Carrier’s liability and responsibility in respect ofas a result of the negligence of both the vessels, the Merchant undertakes to defend, indemnify and holdand/or restraint of labour), the Carrier may terminate and/or abandon the Services and place the goods at any5.5. If the vessel carrying the goods (the carrying vessel) collides with any other vessel (the non-carrying vessel)kind whensoever and howsoever arising (including but not limited to port congestion, strike, lock out, stoppagesecurity.18. If the Services are or are likely to be affected by any risk, delay, hindrance, difficulty or disadvantage of anydemurrage charges) being incurred when the goods are being liened for General Average and/or Salvagediscoloration, or the like did not exist on receipt.Merchant is responsible for payment of all costs and expenses (including but not limited to storage costs andthe Carrier in apparent good order and condition is not a representation that such conditions of rust, oxidation,Salvage security, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the goods. Thecondition of damage but is inherent to the nature of the goods, and acknowledgement of receipt of the goods bydoes not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant to provide General Average and/or17. It is agreed that superficial rust, oxidation, discoloration, or any like condition due to moisture is not asuch sale) shall be applied in satisfaction of General Average and/or Salvage contribution. In case the Merchantaccept any liability whatsoever.of the Carrier at the expense of the Merchant, and the proceeds if any (net of the expenses in connection with16. All and any Services provided by the Carrier gratuitously are provided on the basis that the Carrier will notCarrier, the goods may be sold by public auction or private treaty or may be disposed of at the sole discretionliability and shall replace the limits in Clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14.after notice has been dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e-mail address or fax number last known to thebe provided upon written request by the shipper. The declared value accepted shall be the Carrier’s limit ofMerchant fails to provide General Average and/or Salvage security acceptable to the Carrier within 14 daysMerchant pay to the Carrier additional charges as decided by the Carrier. Details of the additional charges willoption of the Carrier. All goods shall be subject to a lien for General Average and/or Salvage security. If thethe value of the goods has been declared in writing by the shipper and accepted by the Carrier and (ii) theRules 1974 or any amendment thereto or the York-Antwerp Rules 1994 or any modification thereof at the15. The Carrier may accept liability in excess of the limits set out in Clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14 provided that (i)security as may be required by the Carrier. General Average shall be adjusted according to the York-Antwerpof 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect of which the claim arises.claim and any Salvage claim that may be made against the Carrier, and the Merchant shall provide suchexcluding the Carrier’s liability) are suited to that claim, the Carrier’s aforesaid liability shall not exceed a total5.4. The Merchant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Carrier in respect of any General Average14. If there is any claim that the Carrier is legally held liable, and no other terms in this Sea Waybill (limiting orof the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub-contractor.which the claim arises.negligence or mistake of the Carrier or from the mistake, negligence, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoingliability shall not exceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect ofterms of this Sea Waybill, and such indemnity shall include all claims, costs and demands arising from theif the Carrier is still legally held liable for the aforesaid claim despite the aforesaid provision, the Carrier’sdemands whatsoever and by whomsoever made or preferred in excess of the liability of the Carrier under themistake, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoing of the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub-contractor. However,5.3. The Merchant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Carrier from and against all claims, costs andeven if the aforesaid incident arises from the negligence or mistake of the Carrier or from the negligence,Carrier contracts for itself and also as agent and trustee for each such employee, agent and sub-contractor.carried on deck and which are so carried)benefiting the Carrier as if such terms were expressly provided for his or its benefit. For these purposes, thed. any loss of or damage to the goods (which are stated on the front page of this Sea Waybill to beconsequences. Every such employee, agent and sub-contractor shall have the benefit of all the terms hereincongestion, strike, lock out, stoppage or restraint of labour; orIf any such claim should nevertheless be made, the Merchant shall indemnify the Carrier against allc. any loss, damage, expense or cost arising from fire, flood, storm, typhoon, explosion, deviation, portCarrier if such claim imposes upon them any liability in connection with any Services provided by the Carrier.market, profit, tax, tax return, revenue, business or goodwill); or5.2. The Merchant undertakes that no claim shall be made against any employee, agent or sub-contractor of theb. any special, incidental, indirect, consequential or economic loss (including but not limited to loss ofMerchant, or arising from the mistake, negligence or wilful default of the Merchant.a. any delay, goods shut out or off loaded, goods’ departure or arrival time; orpart of the Merchant, or arising from the inaccurate information or the insufficient instructions provided by theshall not be liable for any claim relating to:acting in accordance with the Merchant's instructions, or arising from a breach of warranty or obligation on the13. Notwithstanding any other terms in this Sea Waybill to the contrary but subject to Clause 2.3, the Carrier(including but not limited to loss of and/or damage to any container and/or vessel) arising out of the Carrierexceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods misdelivered.5.1. The Merchant shall indemnify the Carrier against all claims, liability, losses, damage, costs and expensesany claim relating to the aforesaid misdelivery of goods. However, the Carrier’s aforesaid liability shall notc. it shall fully comply with applicable laws and regulations of ports, Customs or other authorities.entitled to receive the goods) without the Carrier’s instruction or prior approval, the Carrier shall be liable forMerchant's instructions; and12. If the Carrier’s agent or sub-contractor negligently or deliberately misdelivers the goods to a person (notb. the goods are fit and suitable for the carriage, storage and any other handling in accordance with thewhich a claim arises.packed; andliability shall not exceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect ofloss of, damage to or any other claims relating to the goods which are improperly or insufficientlythe Carrier shall be liable for any claim relating to the aforesaid incident. However, the Carrier’s aforesaida. all the goods have been properly and sufficiently packed and that the Carrier has no liability for anynegligence, mistake, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoing of the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub-contractor,4.2. The Merchant further warrants that:connection with the goods that arises from the negligence or mistake of the Carrier or that arises from theterms of this Sea Waybill not only for itself but also for the owner of the goods.misdelivery (other than the one described in Clause 12), unauthorised delivery or misdirection of or to or inthe owner of the goods or the authorized agent of the owner of the goods and that it is authorized to accept the11. If there is any loss, damage, deterioration, non-compliance or miscompliance of instructions, non-delivery,4.1. The Merchant entering into any business with the Carrier warrants to the Carrier that the Merchant is eithernature or degree.3.2. This Sea Waybill is the evidence of receipt of the goods by the Carrier.Anything done in accordance with the aforesaid discretion or liberty shall not be a deviation of whatsoeverdeliver the goods to the consignee without production of any original of this Sea Waybill.vessel whether or not named on the front page of this Sea Waybill or stowing the goods on or under deck.3.1. This Sea Waybill is not negotiable and does not constitute title to the goods. The Carrier is entitled tohandling of the goods. The Carrier has liberty to use any means, routes or procedures, including using any2.8. The Merchant’s liability under this Sea Waybill shall be joint and several.procedures to be followed in the performance of the Services including the carriage, the storage and the otheraddress or fax number last known to the Carrier.10.2. The Carrier reserves to itself absolute discretion as to the means, the manner, the routes and theaddress or fax number of the Merchant or (ii) the notice cannot reach the Merchant through its address, e-mailor any part of the Services whatsoever undertaken by the Carrier.such notice shall be deemed as having been dispatched if (i) the Carrier does not know the address, e-mail10.1. The Carrier shall be entitled to sub-contract on any terms to any agents and/or sub-contractors the whole2.7. Wherever it is provided in this Sea Waybill that notice shall be dispatched by the Carrier to the Merchant,per Clauses 8.2 and/or 8.3.gender include every gender.to storage costs and demurrage charges) incurred until the goods are duly delivered or are sold or disposed of as2.6. In this Sea Waybill, words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa; words importing aresponsible for payment of all the outstanding freight charges, and costs and expenses (including but not limited2.5. The Services are subject to the terms of this Sea Waybill.14 days from the date of the goods’ arrival at the port of discharge or place of delivery, the shipper shall beHague Visby Rules.9.2. If the shipment is on the freight collect basis but the consignee does not take delivery of the goods withinfrom the vessel, such shall be determined by the terms of this Sea Waybill but not by the Hague Rules nor theinterest from the date of the invoice until payment at 2% per month.custody and care and handling of the goods prior to the loading on the vessel, and subsequent to the dischargeMerchant. For any amount unpaid within 30 days from the date of the invoice, the Carrier shall be entitled to2.4. Regarding the responsibility and liability of the Carrier for loss of or damage to, or in connection with, theany claim, counterclaim or set-off. Payment to the Carrier is due as soon as an invoice is rendered to thegoods have been declared by the shipper before shipment and inserted in this Sea Waybill.Carrier. The Merchant shall pay to the Carrier all sums immediately when due without deduction on account ofaccording to COGSA is US$500 per package or customary freight unit, unless the nature and value of the9.1. Charges for the Services shall be deemed fully earned and non-returnable upon receipt of the goods by thevalue of 100 pounds sterling. Article IX of the Hague Rules is deemed to be deleted. The limitation amountlimited to storage costs and demurrage charges) being incurred when the goods are being liened.as a bill of lading. The limitation amount in Article IV (5) of the Hague Rules is deemed to be the nominaldispose of the goods. The Merchant is responsible for payment of all costs and expenses (including but notFor the purpose of application of the Hague Rules or the Hague-Visby Rules, this Sea Waybill shall be deemedasking the Merchant to pay the outstanding monies, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell orthe Hague-Visby Rules shall prevail in so far as they are inconsistent with any other terms of this Sea Waybill.goods have been sold or disposed of. In case the Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrieror the Hague-Visby Rules compulsorily applicable (such as COGSA) to this Sea Waybill, the Hague Rules orthe goods, nor shall the Merchant be relieved from the liability of any outstanding debts merely because theconcerned, the Carrier’s liability shall be determined by the Hague Rules or any legislation making such Rulessatisfaction of such debts, and the Carrier shall not be liable for any reduction in value received on the sale oftackle is removed from the goods deposited quayside. As far as carriage of goods by sea or inland waterway isMerchant, and the proceeds if any (net of the expenses in connection with such sale) shall be applied inThe discharge ends either when the goods pass the vessel’s rail and are off the vessel or when the vessel’sauction or private treaty or may be disposed of at the sole discretion of the Carrier at the expense of therail and are on board the vessel or when the vessel’s tackle is attached to the goods for taking them on board.Merchant’s address, e-mail address or fax number last known to the Carrier, the goods may be sold by publicto the time they are discharged from the vessel. The loading takes place either when the goods pass the vessel’sCarrier. If any such monies due to the Carrier are not paid within 14 days after notice has been dispatched to the2.3. Carriage of goods by sea or inland waterway covers the period from the time when the goods are loaded onrespect of such goods, or for any particular or general balance or other monies due from the Merchant to thecarrier or the owner of the vessel by any applicable law or legislation.8.3. All goods and documents relating thereto shall be subject to a particular and general lien for monies due in2.2. The Carrier shall be entitled to all the rights, immunities, exceptions and limitations conferred on theincurred in connection with the storage and the sale and/or disposal of the goods.legality of the remaining terms of this Sea Waybill shall not in any way be affected.Merchant shall pay all costs and expenses (including but not limited to storage costs and demurrage charges)2.1. If at any time one or more of the terms of this Sea Waybill becomes invalid or illegal, the validity orgoods, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the uncollected goods. The"SDR" means Special Drawing Rights as defined by the International Monetary Fund.Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant to take delivery of theconsolidation, de-consolidation, collection, delivery and/or other handling of goods.dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e-mail address or fax number last known to the Carrier. In case theinland waterway, road, rail and/or air; and/or storage, loading, unloading, packing, unpacking,because the goods are not collected or accepted by the Merchant within 14 days after notice has been"Services" means any services of the Carrier provided for the Merchant e.g. carriage of goods by sea,which in the opinion of the Carrier cannot be delivered either because the consignee’s address is incorrect orFebruary 1968.8.2. The Carrier is entitled (but not obliged) to sell by public auction or private treaty or to dispose of all goods"Hague-Visby Rules" means the Hague Rules as amended by the Protocol signed at Brussels on 23wholly cease and the cost of such storage shall be paid by the Merchant to the Carrier.to Bills of Lading signed at Brussels on 25 August 1924.Merchant, whereupon any liability which the Carrier may have in respect of the goods stored as aforesaid shall"Hague Rules" means the International Convention for the Unification of certain Rules of Law relatingshould be taken, the Carrier shall be entitled (but is not obliged) to store the goods at the sole risk of thedamaging nature.8.1. If delivery of the goods is not taken by the Merchant at the time and place when and where delivery"Dangerous Goods" includes goods which are of dangerous, explosive, inflammable, radioactive oraccompanying such goods.supplied by or on behalf of the Carrier.notwithstanding that the value of any such goods may be shown, declared or indicated on any documentstrailer, tank or pallet (including similar articles of transport used to store or consolidate goods) notsuch goods (including any loss, damage, misdelivery, misdirection or delay howsoever caused) and"goods" includes goods, wares, merchandise and articles of every kind whatever; and any container,arrangements previously made in writing, the Carrier shall be under no liability whatsoever in connection with"Merchant" means and includes the shipper, the consignee and/or the owner of the goods.deliver any such goods to the Carrier or cause the Carrier to handle any such goods otherwise than under specialApril 1936.jewellery, valuables, antiques, valuable works of art, live animals or plants. Should the Merchant nevertheless"COGSA" means the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act of the United States of America approved on 16notes, coins, cheques, bonds, negotiable documents and securities, precious stones, precious metal objects,CONTAINER LINE.7. Except under special arrangements previously made in writing, the Carrier will not deal with bullion, bank"Carrier" means FAR EAST CONTAINER LINE LIMITED trading in the name of FAR EASTencourage vermin or other pests.1. In this Sea Waybill, the following words have the following meanings:other goods, property, life or health. The goods that are likely to cause damage include goods that are likely to