1. In this Sea Waybill, the following words have the following meanings: other goods, property, life or health. The goods that are likely to cause damage include goods that are likely to "Carrier" means FAR EAST CONTAINER LINE LIMITED trading in the name of FAR EAST encourage vermin or other pests. CONTAINER LINE. 7. Except under special arrangements previously made in writing, the Carrier will not deal with bullion, bank "COGSA" means the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act of the United States of America approved on 16 notes, coins, cheques, bonds, negotia ble documents and securities, precious stones, precious metal objects, April 1936. jewellery, valuables, antiques, valuable works of art, live animals or plants. Should the Merchant nevertheless "Merchant" means and includes the shipper, the consignee and /or the owner of the goods. deliver any such goods to the Carrier or cause the Carrier to handle any such goods otherwise than under special "goods" includes goods, wares, merchandise and articles of eve ry kind whatever; and any container, arrangements previously made in writing, the Carrier shall be under no liability whatsoever in connection with trailer, tank or pallet (including similar articles of transport used to store or consolidate goods) not such goods (including any loss, damage, misdelivery, misdirection or delay howsoever caused) and supplied by or on behalf of the Carrier. notwiths tanding that the value of any such goods may be shown, declared or indicated on any documents "Dangerous Goods" includes goods which are of dangerous, explosive, infla mmable, radioactive or accompanying such goods. damaging nature. 8.1. If delivery of the goods is not taken by the Merchant at the time and place when and where delivery "Hague Rules" means the International Convention for the Unification of certain Rules of Law relating should be taken, the Carrier shall be entitled (but is not obliged) to store the goods at the sole risk of the to Bills of Lading signed at Brussels on 25 August 1924. Merchant, whereupon any liability which the Carrier may have in respect of the goods stored as aforesaid shall "Hague - Visby Rules" means the Hague Rules as amended by t he Protocol signed at Brussels on 23 wholly cease and the cost of such storage shall be paid by the Merchant to the Carrier. February 1968. 8.2. The Carrier is entitled (but not obliged) to sell by public auction or private treaty or to dispose of all goods "Services" means any services of the Carrier provided for the Merchant e.g. carriage of goods by sea, which in the opinion of the Carrier cannot be delivered either because the consignee’s address is incorrect or inland waterway, road, rail and/or air; and/or storage, loading, unloading, packing, unpacking, be cause the goods are not collected or accepted by the Merchant within 14 days after notice has been consol idation, de - consolidation, collection, delivery and/or other handling of goods. dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e - mail address or fax number last known to the Carrier. In case the "SDR" means Special Drawing Rights as defined by the International Monetary Fund. Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant to take delivery of the 2.1. If at any time one or more of the terms of this Sea Waybill becomes invalid or illegal, t he validity or goods, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the uncollected goods. The legality of the remaining terms of this Sea Waybill shall not in any way be affected. Merchant shall pay all costs and expenses (including but not limited to storage costs and d emurrage charges) 2.2. The Carrier shall be entitled to all the rights, immunities, exceptions and limitations conferred on the incurred in connection with the storage and the sale and/or disposal of the goods. carrier or the owner of the vessel by any app licable law or legislation. 8.3. All goods and documents relating thereto shall be subject to a particular and general lien for monies due in 2.3. Carriage of goods by sea or inland waterway covers the period from the time when the goods are loaded on respect of such goods, or for any particu lar or general balance or other monies due from the Merchant to the to the time they are discharged from the vessel. The loading takes place either when the goods pass the vessel’s Carrier. If any such monies due to the Carrier are not paid within 14 days after notice has been dispatched to the rail and are on board the vessel or when the vessel’s tackle is attached to the goods for taking them on board. Merchant’s address, e - mail address or fax number last known to the Carrie r, the goods may be sold by public The discharge ends either when the goods pass the vessel’s rail and are off the vessel or when the vessel’s auction or private treaty or may be disposed of at the sole discretion of the Carrier at the expense of the tackle is removed from the goods deposite d quayside. As far as carriage of goods by sea or inland waterway is Merchant, and the proceeds if any (net of the expenses in connection with such sale) shall be applied in concerned, the Carrier’s liability shall be determined by the Hague Rules or any legislation making such Rules satisfac tion of such debts, and the Carrier shall not be liable for any reduction in value received on the sale of or the Hague - Visby Rules compulsorily applicable (such as COGSA) to this Sea Waybill , the Hague Rules or the goods, nor shall the Merchant be relieved from the liability of any outstanding debts merely because the the Hague - Visby Rules shall prevail in so far as they are inconsistent with any other terms of this Sea Waybill . goods have been sold or disposed of . In case the Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier For the purpose of application of the Hague Rules or the Hague - Visby Rules, this Sea Waybill shall be deemed asking the Merchant to pay the outstanding monies, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or as a bill of lading. The limitation amount in Article IV (5) of the Hague Rules is deemed to be the nominal dispose of the goods. The Merchant is responsible for payment of all costs and expenses (including but not value of 100 pounds sterling. Article IX of the Hague Rules is deemed to be deleted. The limitation amount limited to storage costs and demurrage charges) being incurred when the goods are being liened . according to COGSA is US$500 per package or customary freight unit, unless the nature and value of the 9.1. Charges for the Services shall be deemed fully earned and non - returnable upon receipt of the goods by the goods have been declared by the shipper before shipment and inserted in this Sea Waybill. Carrier. Th e Merchant shall pay to the Carrier all sums immediately when due without deduction on account of 2.4. Regarding the responsibility and liability of the Carrier for loss of or damage to, or in connection w ith, the any claim, counterclaim or set - off. Payment to the Carrier is due as soon as an invoice is rendered to the custody and care and handling of the goods prior to the loading on the vessel, and subsequent to the discharge Merchant. For any amount unpaid within 30 days from the date of the invoice, the Carrier shall be entitled to from the vessel, such shall be determined by the terms of this Sea Waybill but not by the Hague Rules nor the interest from the date of the invoice until payment at 2% per month. Hague Visby Rules . 9.2. If the shipment is on the freight collect basis but the consignee does not take delivery of the goods within 2.5. Th e Services are subject to the terms of this Sea Waybill. 14 days from t he date of the goods’ arrival at the port of discharge or place of delivery, the shipper shall be 2.6. In this Sea Waybill, words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa; words importing a responsible for payment of all the outstanding freight charges, and costs and expenses (including but not limited gender include every gender. to storage costs and demurrage charges) incu rred until the goods are duly delivered or are sold or disposed of as 2.7. Wherever it is provided in this Sea Waybill that notice s hall be dispatched by the Carrier to the Merchant, per Clause s 8.2 and/or 8.3 . such notice shall be deemed as having been dispatched if (i) the Carrier does not know the address, e - mail 10.1. The Carrier shall be entitled to sub - contract on any terms to any agents and/or sub - contractors the whole address or fax number of the Merchant or (ii) the notice cannot reach the Merchant through its add ress, e - mail or any part of the Services whatsoever undertaken by the Carrier. address or fax number last known to the Carrier. 10.2. The Carrier reserves to itself absolute discretion as to the means, the manner, the routes and the 2.8. The Merchant’s liability under this Sea Waybill shall be joint and several. procedures to be followed in the performance of the Services including the carriage, the storage and the other 3.1. This Sea Waybill is not negotiable and does not constitute title to the goods. The Carrier is entitled to ha ndling of the goods. The Carrier has liberty to use any means, routes or procedures, including using any de liver the goods to the consignee without production of any original of this Sea Waybill. vessel whether or not named on the front page of this Sea Waybill or stowing the goods on or under deck. 3.2. This Sea Waybill is the evidence of receipt of the goods by the Carrier. Anything done in accordance with the aforesaid discretion or liberty shall not be a deviation of whatsoever 4.1. The Merchant entering into any business with the Carrier warrants to the Carrier t hat the Merchant is either nature or degree. the owner of the goods or the authorized agent of the owner of the goods and that it is authorized to accept the 11. If there is any loss, damage, deterioration, non - compliance or miscompliance of instructions, non - delivery, terms of this Sea Waybill not only for itself but also for the owner of the goods. misdelivery (other than the one described in Clause 12), unautho rised delivery or misdirection of or to or in 4.2. The Merchant further warrants that: connection with the goods that arises from the negligence or mistake of the Carrier or that arises from the a. all the goods have been properly and sufficiently packed and that the Carrier has no liability for any negligence, mistake, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoing of the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub - c ontractor, loss of, damage to or any other claims relating to the goods which are improperly or insufficiently the Carrier shall be liable for any claim relating to the aforesaid incident. However, the Carrier’s aforesaid packed; and liability shall not exceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect of b. the goods are fit and suit able for the carriage, storage and any other handling in accordance with the which a claim ari ses. Merchant's instructions; and 12. If the Carrier’s agent or sub - contractor negligently or deliberately misdelivers the goods to a person (not c. it shall fully comply with applicable laws and regulations of ports, Customs or other authorities. entitled to receive the goods) without the Carrier’s instruction or prior approval , the Carrier shall be liable for 5.1. The Merchant shall indemnify the Carrier again st all claims, liability, losses, damage, costs and expenses any claim relating to t he aforesaid misdelivery of goods. However, the Carrier’s aforesaid liability shall not (including but not limited to loss of and/or damage to any container and/ or vessel) arising out of the Carrier exceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods misdelivered. acting in accordance with the Merchant's instructions, or arising from a breach of warranty or obligation on the 13. Notwithstanding any other terms in this Sea Waybill to the contrary but subject to Clause 2.3, the Carrier part of the Merchant, or arising from the inaccurate information or the insufficient instructions provided by the shall not be liable for any claim relating to: M erchant, or arising from the mistake, negligence or wilful default of the Merchant. a. any delay, goods shut out or off loaded, goods’ departure or arrival time; or 5.2. The Merchant undertakes that no claim shall be made against any employee, agent or sub - contractor of the b. any special, incidental, indirect, consequential or economic loss (including but not limite d to loss of Carrier if such claim imposes upon them any liability in conne ction with any Services provided by the Carrier. market, profit, tax, tax return, revenue, business or goodwill); or If any such claim should nevertheless be made, the Merchant shall indemnify the Carrier against all c. any loss, damage, expense or cost arising from fire, flood, storm, typhoon, explosion, deviation , port consequences. Every such employee, agent and sub - contractor shall have the benefit of all the terms herein congestion , strike, lock out, stoppage or restraint of labour; or benefiting the Carrier as if such terms were expressly provided for his or its benefit. For these purposes, the d. any loss of or damage to the goods (which are stated on the front page of this Sea Waybill to be Carrier contracts for itself and also as agent and trustee for each such employee, agent and sub - contractor. carried on deck and which are so carried) 5.3. The Merchant shall defend, ind emnify and hold harmless the Carrier from and against all claims, costs and even if the aforesaid incident arises from the negligence or mistake of the Carrier or from the negligence, demands whatsoever and by whomsoever made or preferred in excess of the liability of the Carrier under the mistake, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoing of the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub - contractor. However, terms of this Sea Waybill, and such indemnity shall include all claims, c osts and demands arising from the if the Carrier is still legally held liable for the aforesaid claim despite the aforesaid provision, the Carrier’s negligence or mistake of the Carrier or from the mistake, negligence, wilful default or deliberate wrongdoing liability shall not exceed a total of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect of of the Carrier’s employee, agent or sub - contractor. which the claim arises. 5.4. The Merchant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Carrier in respect of any General Average 14. If there is any claim that the Carrier is legally held liable, and no other terms in this Sea Waybill (limiting or claim and any Salvage claim that may be made against the Carrier, and the Merchant shall provide such excluding the Carrier’s liability) a re suited to that claim, the Carrier’s aforesaid liability shall not exceed a total security as may be required by the Carrier. General Average shall be adjusted according to the York - Antwerp of 2 SDR per kilogram of the gross weight of that part of the goods in respect of which the claim arises. Rules 1974 or any amendment thereto or the York - Antwerp Rules 1994 or any modification thereof at the 15. The Carrier may accept liability in excess of the limits set o ut in Clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14 provided that (i) option of the Carrier. All goods shall be subject to a lien for General Average and/or Salvage security. If the the value of the goods has been declared in writing by the shipper and accepted by the Carrier and (ii) the Merchant fails to provide General Average and/or Salvage security acceptable to the Carrier within 14 days Merchant pay to the Carrier additional charges as decided by the Carrier. Details of the additiona l charges will after notice has been dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e - mail address or fax number last known to the be provided upon written request by the shipper. The declared value accepted shall be the Carrier’s limit of Carrier, the goods may be sold by public auction or private treaty or may be dispose d of at the sole discretion liability and shall replace the limits in Clauses 11, 12, 13 and 14. of the Carrier at the expense of the Merchant, and the proceeds if any (net of the expenses in connection with 16. All and any Services provided by the Carrier gratuitously a re provided on the basis that the Carrier will not such sale) shall be applied in satisfaction of General Average and/or Salvage contribution. In case the Merchant accept any liability whatsoever. does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant to provide General Average and/or 17. It is agreed that superficial rust, oxidation, discoloration, or any like condition due to moisture is not a Salvage security, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the goods. The condition of damage but is inherent to the nature of the go ods , and acknowledgement of receipt of the goods by Merchant is responsible for payment of all co sts and expenses (including but not limited to storage costs and the Carrier in ap parent good order and condition is not a representation that such conditions of rust, oxidation, demurrage charges) being incurred when the goods are being liened for General Average and/or Salvage discoloration, or the like did not exist on receipt . security . 18. If the Services are or are likely to be affected by any risk, delay, hindrance, difficulty or disadvantage of any 5.5. If the vessel carrying the goods (the carrying vessel) collides with any ot her vessel (the non - carrying vessel) kind whensoever and howsoever arising (including but not limited to port congestion, strike, lock out, stoppage as a result of the negligence of both the vessels, the Merchant undertakes to defend, indemnify and hold and/or restraint of labour) , the Carrier may terminate and/or a bandon the Services and place the goods at any harmless the Carrier against any liability to any other party in so far as such liability relates to any claim place for the Merchant to dispose of the goods, whereupon the Carrier’s liability and responsibility in respect of wha tsoever made against the non - carrying vessel by the Merchant. the goods shall cease. If the Merchant does not dispose of the goods within 14 days after noti ce has been 5.6. In the event of accident, danger, damage or disaster before or after the commencement of the voyage, dispatched to the Merchant’s address, e - mail address or fax number last known to the Carrier, the Carrier is resulting from any cause whatsoever, whether due to negligence or not, for which or for the consequence of entitled (but not obliged) to sell by public auction or private treaty or to dispose of the goods at the expense of which, the Carrier is not responsible, by Statute, contract or otherwise, the goods , Shipper, Consignee or the Merchant. In ca se the Merchant does not receive the notice dispatched by the Carrier asking the Merchant to owners of the goods shall contribute with the Carrier in General Average to the payment of any sacrifices, dispose of the goods, such shall not affect the Carrier’s aforesaid right to sell or dispose of the goods. The losses or expenses of a General Average nature that may be made or incurred and shall pay salvage and special Merchant is responsible for payment of all the outst anding freight charges, and costs and expenses (including charges incurred in respect of the goods . If a salving vessel is owned or operated by the Carrier, salvages shall but not limited to storage costs and demurrage charges) incurred until the goods are disposed of or sold . be paid for as fully as if the said salving vessel or vessels belonged to strangers. Such deposit as the Carrier, or 19. Any claim notice against the Carrier must be in writing and delivered to the Carrier within 14 days from the its agent, may deem sufficient to cover the estimated contribution of the goods and any salvage and special date of delivery of the goods or the date the goods should have been delivered or the date the Merchant first charges thereon shall, if required, be made by the goods , Shipper, Consignee or owner s of the goods to the knows about the event that may give rise to the claim, whichever is the earliest. If the Merchant fails to deliver Carrier before delivery. the aforesaid written claim notice to the Carrier and thereby prejudices the Carrier’s position in the claim, the 6. Except under special arrangements previously made in writing, the Merchant warrants that the goods are not Carrier shall in any event be discharged of all liability whatsoever and howsoever arising in respect of the claim. Dangerous Goods, nor are goods of comparable hazard, nor are goods otherwise likely to cause damage . 20. The Carrier shall in any event be discharged of all liability whatsoever and howsoever arising in respect of Should the Merchant nevertheless deliver any such goods to the Carrier or cause the Carrier to handle any such the Services, unless suit is brought against the Carrier in the court of the Hong Kong Special Administrative goods otherwise than under special arrangements previously made in writing, then whether or not the Carrier is Region within nine months from the date of delivery of the goods or the date the goods should have been aware of the nature of such good s, the Merchant shall be liable for all expenses, losses or damage whatsoever delivered or the date of the event giving rise to the claim, whichever is the earliest. caused by or to or in connection with such goods and howsoever arising, and shall indemnify the Carrier 21. The defences, exemptions and limitations of liability provided for in this Sea Waybill shall apply in any against all penalties, claims, damages, costs, expenses and any other liab ility whatsoever arising in connection action again st the Carrier whether such action is founded in contract or in tort. with such goods, and such goods may be destroyed or otherwise dealt with at the risk and expenses of the 22. The contract evidenced by this Sea Waybill is governed by the laws of the Hong Kong Special Merchant in the sole discretion of and without any liability to the Carrier. If such goods are handled by the Administrative Region. Any claim or dispute must be determined exclusively by the courts i n the Hong Kong Ca rrier under arrangements previously made in writing, they may nevertheless be destroyed at the risk and Special Administrative Region and no other court. expenses of the Merchant in the sole discretion of and without any liability to the Carrier on account of risk to